this crisis in Gaza started almost 3
months ago October 7 and we have managed
until now not to resolve the crisis but
at least to avoid a spill over uh in the
region when the West Bank and Lebanon
and uh this is what we need to continue
to do on day one president mcon Frome
Minister Kona worked very hard
tirelessly to convince Regional
stakeholders to avoid Reg
conflagration uh linked to the crisis in
Gaza and to a certain extent we manag to
succeed and to get there so uh you
mentioned the events in Beirut earlier
today uh France will continue to
encourage all sides to avoid escalations
and uh and to focus on the situation in
Gaza to make sure that we can have
a progress on the ground uh
sustainable cation of hostilities
resumption of talks humanitarian relief
release of all hostages etc etc those
assassinations that took place in Beirut
are they a breach of the UN Charter is
this a breach of lebanon's sovereignty
and territorial Integrity well uh I
don't have to comment on that I think it
remains unclear uh what we need to do
again is to avoid uh spillover effect uh
we need to avoid uh conflict between
Israel and Lebanon uh we need to make
sure that the situation in the southern
part of leanon remains calm we need to
make sure that unifil which is the UN
pko which is deployed there since 1978
can fulfill its mandate and uh and
nobody needs a new front in this region
of course you're talking about
escalation we've got escalation
potentially in other places as well look
at what's going on in the Red Sea I
believe you're now calling a security
council meeting in in the coming hours
on that how worried is France
particularly now as we know there's a
there's an Iranian warship that's now
patrolling the area well uh we are very
concerned with the situation in the Red
Sea France had joined the condemnation
of these attacks on on day one uh as you
rightly said James the security Council
will discuss this issue tomorrow
afternoon uh 300 p.m. in this chamber
and uh we need to do whatever it takes
to secure Maritime safety it's essential
I think nobody wants to see so
escalation in the Red Sea and uh uh the
r is uh absolutely uh vital for
transportation of goods people energy uh
humanitarian Goods Etc so I think we uh
need to secure Maritime safety in the
Red Sea and everywhere let's get to Gaza
itself where there's this dire
humanitarian situation where so many
people have been killed more than 20,000
half of those are children France has
control of the security Council in terms
of being the president for the next
month are you going to push for another
resolution and do you see any change in
the US position because the US of course
are the ones blocking this with their
veto well uh we need to see progress uh
on on this file of course uh the
humanitarian situations remains
absolutely dire the security Council
adopted two resolution on humanitarian
dimension of this crisis and uh to be
honest with you implementation of this
resolution is not there the needs
remains and uh and of course uh it's
good to see the security Council
addressing the humanit situation in Gaza
but we need to do more than addressing
the symptoms of this crisis and this is
why France has been urging all Security
Council Members to support a sustainable
session of hos fa ities in Gaza uh
because this is what we need for the
people for humanitarian access what we
need above all is a a full protection of
civilians okay well let me let me press
you on that there isn't protection of
civilians right now is Israel acting
illegally in France's view in what it's
doing now because South Africa is taking
it to the international court of justice
in the hay under the genocide convention
do you agree with that action for
example what uh we recognize is the
right of Israel to defend itself uh
everybody should remember that on
October 6 the situation in Gaza was Cal
and amas decided to attack Israel to
kill 1,200 Jews to rape women in a
monstrous
manner Crim but has its response being
legitimate self-defense or is or is are
these war crimes yeah uh what is uh
legitimate is to make sure that you're
not the victim anymore from terrorist
attack it has been a terrorist attack
and Hamas has acted as a terrorist
movement and Israel has a right to
defend itself to make sure that its
people are safe that this kind of
terrorist attack do not happen again so
my point is that everything which has to
do with self-defense and avoiding
repetition of these attacks is an view
acceptable and legitimate what should be
avoided what is not acceptable is a
violation of the Geneva conventions and
uh violation of the law of the war of
international humanitarian law so going
after the fighters from Hamas is okay of
course going after civilians women
children Elders is not it's clear there
should be a clear
distinctions make sure to subscribe to
our channel to get the latest news from
Al
jazer